








Disadvantages of Cloud Computing

Although cloud computing has many benefits, there are a few drawbacks to take into account. 
The following are some of the major drawbacks of cloud computing:

Security risks - Data storage on third-party servers may be exposed to hackers, cyberattacks, and 
        illegal access, which can be a security issue. Although the security of the data is the responsibility 
        of the cloud provider, there have been instances where data breaches have led to the leakage of sensitive information. 
            Keep in mind what happened at Code Space when their AWS EC2 access was hacked, causing data loss and 
        eventually the collapse of the company. Their reliance on remote cloud-based technology forced them to take 
        on the risks related to outsourcing everything.

Dependence on internet connectivity - A reliable and powerful internet connection is necessary 
        for cloud computing. The speed and usability of cloud-based applications and services may be affected 
        if the internet is weak or unavailable. 

Limited control - The user's ability to manage the infrastructure, software, and hardware is constrained 
        while using cloud computing. Users are unable to alter the underlying systems or settings in this way, 
        which might be problematic for organizations that have particular demands.
            Clients may be limited in what they may do with their deployments by a cloud provider's management 
        policies and end-user licensing agreement (EULA). Although customers may not have as much control over the 
        infrastructure on the back end, they still have full control over their apps, data, and services.

Downtime and outages - Cloud service providers may encounter outages and downtime, which may affect the 
        accessibility and availability of cloud-based services and applications. Customers may become dissatisfied 
        as a result, along with lost productivity and income.
            An Amazon Web Services outage may have cost publicly traded companies $150 million in 2017. Sadly, no business is immune, 
        especially when it comes to preventing essential business operations. In June and July of 2019, several companies 
        and services, including well-known web services company Cloudflare, Google, Amazon, Shopify, Reddit, Verizon, 
        and Spectrum, experienced outages.

Cost - While cloud computing can be affordable in some circumstances, it can also be costly for companies 
        that need a lot of performance, storage, or processing power. Data transfer, support, and other services 
        could also come at an additional expense.

Vendor lock-in - When a business relies on a particular cloud provider, switching to a different one 
        or bringing data and apps back in-house might be challenging. This is due to the fact that cloud providers 
        frequently employ exclusive technologies and file formats that are incompatible with those of other providers 
        or on-premise systems. 
            To avoid substantial expense and interruption, it might be difficult to move data and apps to another cloud 
        provider or to bring them back in-house. Additionally, it may be difficult or expensive to switch cloud providers due to 
        lengthy contracts or high exit fees. Migration-related flaws or hacks might potentially expose your data to extra 
        security and privacy risks.
