Types of Deployment Models

The three (3) main types of cloud deployment models are: private, public, and hybrid cloud. 

Private cloud

      The private cloud concept is made to be private and is intended only for use by its tenants. This means that in order to connect to a network 
link and access a private cloud, IT must first set up a specific network access. A business can host its own private cloud infrastructure 
in-house or through a third party. The infrastructure is created for exclusive usage, which makes the private cloud concept interesting. This 
provides an organization with direct control over the resources available and the data storage methods. For instance, you can pick the precise 
hardware and operating system you like. Other models do not offer the same level of versatility as this one. This is especially helpful if there 
are particular security threats or needs. But compared to the other models, it typically demands a larger time and financial investment. Think 
about the hardware that needs to be purchased, installed, and maintained, as well as the infrastructure that needs to be created. If the 
hardware is provided and maintained by a third party, such as IBM or RackSpace, this decreases. How is this different from on-premise, you might 
be wondering. The architecture under this paradigm leverages virtualization, which enables on-demand compute resources, and adheres to cloud 
principles. Off-site private clouds are another option.

Public cloud

      Public clouds are the second type. The public can access and use the shared cloud infrastructure. An organization that offers cloud services, 
such as AWS or Azure, owns and manages the infrastructure. Internet access is available for public clouds. This enables businesses to launch 
rapidly and for little money. Instead of hosting or committing to an infrastructure, they can choose the services they require from a supplier. 
Scaling is made simpler by the ability to purchase additional capacity immediately. Public cloud is not a smart option if having direct access 
to data centers or hardware is crucial. For security concerns, public cloud companies hide the whereabouts of their data centers even from their 
customers.

Hybrid cloud

      Why not both? Enter the third model: hybrid. This is when an organization uses a combination of two or more distinct models. The different models 
interact with each other via a network link and can share data and services. It's more of a question of where data and services are physically 
stored. For example, you could store sensitive patient data on a private cloud for security reasons and use an application on the public cloud, 
like a business intelligence tool, to process it. Hybrid clouds are useful in the case of cloud bursting. This is when a private cloud is 
overwhelmed by demand and hits capacity. To avoid disruption of service to users, traffic is moved to a public cloud instance. A classic example 
of this are seasonal spikes. For example, retail businesses can expect extraordinary traffic during sales periods like Black Friday or Boxing Day. 
This allows organizations to cost-effectively handle periodic spikes with pay-per-use pricing.

Other deployment models

      There are other cloud deployment models to consider including multicloud.The services of various cloud providers are combined in multicloud. An 
organization might, for instance, use Google Cloud for analytics and Azure for backups and website hosting. A variety of pricing options and 
service options are available with multicloud. It lessens a company's reliance on a single vendor. This should not be confused with the hybrid 
model, which combines services with cloud deployment models.

Another model to consider is the community model. This occurs when a single community shares the cloud's infrastructure for their exclusive use. 
Typically, this community has a shared interest or concern, such as having the same security requirements or jurisdiction, or sharing a mission. 
This shared infrastructure facilitates data collaboration and exchange, whether it is research data between universities or government data 
across agencies. The infrastructure itself can be maintained and hosted within or externally.
